[MUSIC]
Buildings are composed of rooms.
Although buildings and
rooms have slightly different functions,
we essentially treat them as
generic housing structures.
You can enter and
exit a building or a room, and
they can both be used
to store furnishings.
So despite being unique types of objects,
they can be dealt with uniformly.
The Composite Design Pattern
achieves two goals.
To compose nested structures of objects,
and to deal with the classes for
these objects uniformly.
The pattern follows this basic design.
A component interface serves as
the supertype for a set of classes so
that they can all be dealt with uniformly.
This is done by enforcing polymorphism.
All implementing classes
conform to the same interface.
An abstract superclass can also
be used in placed of an interface
as both are allowed for polymorphism.
But we'll focus on using
an interface here.
The composite class is used
to aggregate any class that
implements the component interface.
The composite class will allow you
to traverse through and potentially
manipulate the component objects
that the composite object contains.
The leaf class represents
a non-composite type.
It is not composed of other components.
Next, we want to deal with non-composite
and composite objects uniformly.
By having the leaf class and composite
class implement the component interface,
we unify them with a single type.
The composite and leaf classes are now
considered subtypes of component.
Depending on the problem,
you can have other composite and
leaf classes when using
the composite design pattern.
But only one overall component interface,
or abstract super class.
Note that a composite object can
contain other composite objects,
since the composite class
is a sub type of component.
This is known as Recursive Composition,
which is another name for
this design pattern.
It can be difficult and confusing to
imagine how this design pattern actually
looks like because of the apparent
cyclical nature of the composite class.
The easiest way to visualize it
is by thinking of it like a tree.
At the root level,
we have our main composite object,
which is made up of
other component objects.
At each level, we can add more
components below each composite object,
like another composite or a leaf.
Note that you can only add components to
a composite object and not a leaf object.
This means that a composite object
has the potential to grow the tree,
while a leaf object effectively
ends the tree where it is.
The composite design pattern
is used to address two issues.
How do we use individual types of
objects to build a tree-like structure,
and how can we treat the individual
types of objects uniformly without
checking their types?
Now that we know what the UML class
diagram of a composite design pattern
looks like and how to interpret it,
let's apply it to an example.
We will use the earlier example of how
buildings are composed of generic housing
structures.
This structure is considered
the component interface.
It can be use to describe a building,
a floor, or
a room despite each of these
being unique types of objects.
The housing class is the composite class.
A housing is a type of structure,
which could also contain other structures.
This means that a housing object
could contain other housing objects.
For example, a building could be
represented by a housing object, and
the building could contain floors.
Each floor could be represented
by another housing object.
We can traverse through the building from
floor to floor because the building is
composed of floors,
all of which are housing objects.
A room is considered a leaf class since
a room can not contain another room.
It is contained within a housing
like the floor of a building.
We now have a UML class diagram that
expresses how to model buildings
being made up of housing and
room types of structures.
Next, let's realize the composite design
pattern for the building example in JAVA.
Step one, design the interface
that defines the overall type.
We start off by defining
the interface that the composite and
leaf classes will implement.
This supports polymorphism for
your component and leaf class.
Step two, implement the composite class.
You implement the interface
in the composite class.
This will give the housing class it's
own behavior when client code uses it.
Since our housing object can be
composed of other structures,
you'll need to represent this
containment with a suitable collection.
You will also need a method for adding
more components to your composite object.
Here, we have used
a private array list and
changed it only through
the public add structure method.
To traverse through the components
of a composite object,
you must be able to retrieve
the components when asked.
You can also include additional methods
which will help with the management of
component objects.
It is up to you to decide what else
to include in your composite class.
Step three, implement the leaf class.
Since the leaf class doesn't contain
any components, we don't need to add
a collection of components to it or any
methods to manage a component collection.
We simply need to implement the methods
of the I structure interface.
Now that we've finished implementing
our building using the composite design
pattern, how do we actually use it?
We simply construct our building
structure by structure.
In this example,
our building has one floor, which
contains a common room and two washrooms.
This is obviously very simplistic, but
it gives you an idea how powerful
this design pattern can be.
Composite objects can be built quickly and
easily.
Each component can be expected to
have the same set of behaviors
without needing to do any type checking.
To summarize, the composite design pattern
is used to solve the issues of how to
build a tree-like structure of objects,
and
how to treat the individual types
of those objects uniformly.
This is achieved by enforcing polymorphism
across each class through implementing an
interface or inheriting from a superclass.
And using a technique called
recursive composition,
which allows objects to be composed of
other objects that are of a common type.
You can think of this design pattern
as applying the decomposition and
generalization object-oriented design
principles together to break a whole into
parts, but having the whole and
parts both conform to a common type.
The composite design pattern lets
you build complex structures
by constructing them using
composite objects and
leaf objects which belong to
a unified component type.
This makes it easier to understand and
manipulate the structure, and
will lead to more readable,
reusable, and meaningful code.